__0.1 Introduction__
For the past two years I've been researching the topic of Organic User Interfaces (OUI). What I have found is that OUI does not have a clear definition that everyone agreed on and because of this, projects done in this field vary in many things. For some, organic means something that is alive, for some it means to work with materials found in nature, for others it means biomimicry and so on. But for me it's started to mean something else. What was not about what kind of material I'm using, if it's an imitation of a natural element etc., rather that is it intuitive, "natural" to use and most importantly, how does it feel to use it?

When users interact with systems what they feel, how they feel it's called user experience. No matter if it's an art piece or digital device. User experience is what describes how does people feel when using a product, service or experience an art piece. Our experience vary, based on many things; relation to art, digital devices, technology, previous knowledge, what's the input, what's the output and so on. OUI is a field where input and output is something that differs from many other user interfaces. This and the fact that i was focusing on how people feel when they use an interactive system lead me to think and write about digital devices that provide feedback for multiple human senses.

Imagine a computer that instead of beeping and flashing colorful pixels would create some kind of a smell to let you know you have a new e-mail, a device that senses your present and welcomes you with a warm touch or a device that turns gestures into food. This thesis is about such devices. I'm not going to call it organic, nor natural or intuitive – however the word organic is coming from the greek word _organikos_ what means; __'relating to an organ or instruments'__ – the research is about multi-sensory feedback by gesture drive interfaces for specific human senses.

The point of this research and my thesis is to investigate human-computer interaction through artistic objects to question existing input methods, the way computers, digital devices communicate with their users. See if it's possible to reach a state where digital devices become invisible, the user interface shifts toward something else than buttons, pointing devices, where error messages, beeps will be replaced with a breeze of fresh air, food, touch or something else.